Welcome everyone to the solution for machine learning.
Question number 8 this question was just in general asking what is overfitting causes and what ways
can you attempt to avoid overfitting.
So overfitting is when the machine learning model does not generalize well to data it has not seen before
such as test data.
What happens is overfit the training data and that's usually indicating it has too much complexity in
regards to the training data size.
So here we can see a simple visual example of underfeeding good fit and overfitting.
So this is just some sort of fit on a continuous label and we can see here under fitting we have a high
error on not just training points but also test points.
So when we end up getting a new point on the actual continuous value here basically what to happen is
going to receive a large error so under fitting that's exemplified when you have large errors in both
your test set and your training set a good fit is when you have low errors in both your training set
and your test set.
Now overfitting what happens is you have a very complex model and on your training set it performs very
well because basically it ended up fitting perfectly to every single point in your training set.
But as you begin to test it on a test set essentially data it hasn't seen before.
You end up getting a much larger error than on your training data and that's a prime example that your
overfitting when you did really well on your training data.
Perform poorly on your test data.
So there's many ways to attempt to fix overfitting one thing is to increase the training data size that's
not always an option the Pentagon how much data you have but it is a way to help alleviate overfitting
in other great way to fix overfitting is regularization.
And there's lots of different techniques for this.
There's L-1 regularisation L2 regularisation.
You can also try early stoppings so you can try for certain algorithms to stop them earlier.
That way they don't get overly complex and overfit to your training data.
And then there's also other things like different methods of evaluating.
You can do things like k fold cross-validation although that won't directly be able to fix the issue
or if fitting it is something you can take into account.
OK I hope this was helpful.
Definitely check out the resources in the guide book on this one.
I'll see you at the next lecture.